One of the biggest decisions you have to make when starting out in the gym is choosing what workout split (or “training split”) you’re going to use. Or in other words, simply figuring out how you’re going to group your exercises throughout the week. And although there isn’t one “best workout split” for everyone, certain muscle building splits have their advantages. For example, we know that training a muscle at least 2x/week is superior to 1x/week. This automatically makes the common bro split inferior to other higher muscle training frequency workout splits. Training splits like the upper lower split, full body workout splits (“total body workouts”), and the push pull legs workout split train each muscle 2x/week whereas the bro split does not. This not only helps better optimize protein synthesis but also enables you to get more quality sets done since your workout volume is spread out over multiple workouts.

But which of these splits should you choose for mass? Well, it depends on your training experience. The best workout split for beginners looking to put on mass is likely a 3 day workout split with full body workouts. This is because you can train the compound lifts frequently and master them very quickly without causing too much muscle damage. Then, as you gain experience and need more volume to progress, you can switch to a 4 day workout split (such as the upper/lower split) to help spread out your volume better throughout the week. And then, as you progress even more, switching to a 5 day workout split or a 6 day workout split (push pull legs for example) would be wise to keep your workouts from being excessively long and fatiguing. However, despite what research says, it’s important to keep in mind that workout volume and consistency are the more important factors. So choose the workout split that you enjoy the most and best fits your schedule – as that’s going to be the best option for you! 

And if you’re looking for a step-by-step program that shows you how to optimize your training and nutrition in order to progress as efficiently as possible, then simply take my starting-point analysis tool below to find which program is best for you: 
https://builtwithscience.com/courses
